[Music]
we're here in cumulus Sun square you can
hear a pin drop everyone's waiting for
the marshal to arrive meanwhile there's
about 200,000 military people here the
armies are arrayed there's a lot of
people watching this globally because of
tensions between America and DPRK and
then the seeming day taunt in Singapore
we're just waiting to see which missiles
they're actually gonna parade out are
they gonna go on a peaceful stance and
not show new missiles or are they gonna
say hey we have new ICBM missile
technology that can reach America which
thereby sends a message
[Music]
[Applause]
all of the army just came by now that
people are coming by so the big news
here and today they did not shut out the
ICBM technology they did not run out the
so-called big boys the big missiles that
can reach the continental US so I think
it's sending a message that they want to
negotiate so a lot of people watching in
Beijing a lot of people watching in
Washington that okay that seems to be
like we're willing to talk
[Music]
now it wasn't just the absence of ICBMs
that said the massive in a sign of
improved relationships with China
the Chinese premier Xi Jinping sent his
right-hand man Lygia and Shu to attend
the celebration now when it comes to
North Korea these kinds of political
signals have huge significance why well
because the DPRK has been forced to
communicate in different ways due to its
being considered a pariah state for
decades it's been almost universally
condemned for its serious human rights
abuses but especially for its consistent
aggressive and frequent nuclear
saber-rattling in the summer of 2017
relations with the u.s. seemed to reach
a new low with President Trump and
chairman kim jungeun trading insults
that seemingly threatened all-out war
Rocketman
his on a suicide mission for himself the
North Korean leader reacted calling him
a dotard
Korea best not make any more threats to
the United States they will be met with
fire and fury like the world has never
seen
[Music]
then suddenly and very surprisingly
everything changed at a hastily
organized summit in Singapore
president Trump met with kim jeong-hoon
the first time a sitting president has
ever met a North Korean leader and
reaffirmed an agreement to denuclearize
the Korean Peninsula I was really being
tough and so was he I will go back and
forth and then we fell in love now on
top of this landmark agreement North and
South Korea began a series of bilateral
summits that have been a show of good
faith demine part of the DMZ taken down
guard towers and even symbolically
shaking hands across the border now this
was not only unthinkable a few months
earlier but is perhaps the most
remarkable moment in the history of the
two countries since the cessation of
violence 70 years ago we wanted to go to
Pyongyang for ourselves to see if North
Korea was really ready to come in from
the proverbial cold there's still only
one way to travel in North Korea and
that's on a tightly scheduled government
sanctioned tour we're here in Pyongyang
to see the 70th anniversary of statehood
so we're going to go through the process
of seeing various things this for
example is a recreation of the
birthplace of Kim no song vehicle
of the dprk this tradition has been
inherited through generations and now it
is being inherited by respected supreme
leader comrade Tim someone so in fact
when you look around
turn-turn touch anything and don't step
on the floors now North Korea may indeed
be looking towards its future but
remained obsessed with their past as
evidenced by this politically charged
and honestly quite hard homage to its
current and never ending president the
long deceased kim ill sung this is the
magical well that Kim il-sung eternal
president used
magic I wish me happy good no you don't
put it back up sorry sorry I did a bad
thing I put my own water into the magic
water
started with the best intentions and
then poorly
more than ever the North Koreans were
keen to put their economy front and
center
and show us how it's supposedly thriving
despite sanction they took us for an
inside look at a silk factory in
downtown Pyongyang
[Music]
[Applause]
now while the North Koreans intention
was to show us the great working
conditions here at the factory we
couldn't help but notice that everything
from the workers lifestyles to their
quarters remain heavily controlled where
do the families live but all we had to
do is scratch the surface a little bit
to see that these ideal working
conditions for the quote-unquote virgins
were actually quite heavily regulated so
beer insulted me bad rabbit and oranges
and beer and hairy crime is spent
that's the lover parent chickens are not
good well I'm not gonna eat parent
chickens anytime soon what are all these
posters of military missiles and weapons
gratefully the Germans of a country as a
minute late that picture shows the power
right and so this is a silk weaving
dormitory so wood posters like this be
at every dormitory most dormitories
would have like a military power
but anyhow this hostel represents how
Weaver's Weaver's pride and dignity mean
yeah if you guys unify which everybody
says you want to unify North and South
Korea then this won't be is so important
because the military is not so important
if there's you're not at war
[Music]
if the years and ensure our security no
in vitro the hostile anti HIV policy
here yes the time there are maybe
variables maybe at the time yeah
[Music]
the North Koreans wanted to dispel any
idea of food shortages and to show us
their self-reliance
so we laugh Pyongyang for a collective
farm east of the city
[Applause]
pharming since the inception of man has
been important for us to sustain the
fleshie vessel that we call the body and
while the parents were working in the
fields their children were trotted out
for songs and calisthenics for yet
another display for our benefit
[Music]
however after all this choreography we
had a few candid moments with our
government minder who having gotten to
know us for a few days
opened up and shared with us more than
we had ever heard from a North Korean
about the realities of living under
sanctions that the UN Security Council
first imposed in 2006 after North
Korea's first nuclear test isolating its
economy almost totally from global
markets because of sanctions if you
can't import anything then you have to
make everything domestically so you have
to do all your food energy clothes
electronics everything has to be done in
DPRK yeah that's the main policy right
of our nation's economic
Erding yeah since 1948 what are the
hardships that you have to go through
because of the sanction
his lack of electricity have you noticed
a change since President Trump or no he
you know he strengthened the sanctions
on our country rather than Obama
administration the sanctions are worse
yes and I agree about the sanctions
because in our nation's existence power
and sovereignty I think you as its
proposed to impose sanctions on our
country is just that
oh you can't exist right right so the
purpose of the US sanctions is to make
DPRK not exist yeah yeah yeah okay I do
like I'm very angry about sanctions and
do a lot of people in DPRK feel the same
way that the sanctions are maybe yeah to
to to stop the DPRK from existing but
with so much change on the horizon we
wanted to find out how other people from
Penang really feel about the North and
the South moving closer together
[Music]
so one of the only ways that you can
actually get out on the street and talk
to people in Pyongyang is to come here
in the Metro so we want to talk to
people about this summit between North
and South and it does that affect
lations or attitudes here in Pyongyang
nice to meet you I wanted to ask you
what you thought about the summit
between North Korea and South Korea
[Music]
not in
and what do you think about the summit
that happened between marshal Kim
Littleton and Donald Trump in Singapore
do you think that's a good thing for
American DPRK relations
[Music]
you don't I do you think that's a good
thing to diss new relations between DPRK
and the USA thank you
how do you feel about the summit between
North Korea and South Korea
[Music]
that's a so-called glorious country mass
games or mass gymnastics the positive
outlook and diplomatic signals continues
[Music]
we're at a stadium in Pyongyang that
just did a big show of mass gymnastics
in the past I've been here it's been a
lot more aggressive there's a lot of
ICBM technology on this way but tonight
anyway showed a lot of foot
the summit between the DPRK and Republic
of Korea which has never been done
before and also that a feature cumulus
where they were talking about bilateral
relations and they feature Chinese which
is very rare it was basically a big
message to China and a big message to
America that we didn't show any weapons
technology we talked about friendship
and bilateral relationships so it's very
very interesting the messaging that was
sent here tonight in Pyongyang by the
end of our trip it seemed to me that
North Korea had indeed been profoundly
changed by the progress made in 2018 but
political reality is always much more
complicated so he headed to Seoul South
Korea a city which remains directly
threatened every day by Kim Jong Un's
vast military arsenal
as recently as 2017 there were
high-level discussions about whether or
not to do a preemptive strike against
the DPRK that's how bad things had
gotten today we are now demilitarizing
the DMZ their summits between North and
South Korea in fact their summits
between America and DPRK something that
would be unthinkable before so we wanted
to come to South Korea talk to people on
the ground and see what the zeitgeist
here in the south is and if it matches
that in the north
[Music]
was I gonna make cheating class I go to
come on Quran get a gay I'm gay
it seems all the Bloods and the mean and
Sunni poor hunger to learn
is it sunshine gay now well this year
has seen rapid progress the work behind
the scenes has been underway for decades
moon Chung in who has long advocated for
engagement with the north is the
architect of the current South Korean
president official policy on the issue
president moon and kim jonghwan have had
three summits is this the biggest year
since hostilities ceased between North
and South Korea in the history of the
conflict however say so you know really
great reversal we have a never expected
that kinds of development and it is
truly unprecedented I was income young
we were invited to the gymnastic
performance on nan Gong give our
children come upon EA using a saw Ohana
their own in Gaeseong pyridyl ha Jiwon
cultural mantra or less freedom
president Mun had a chance to give a
talk to North Korea in the cities and he
then said I made an agreement with
chairman Kim jong-un clear so halacha G
Adam down becomes Honolulu young GUI can
view our head theory of non can I attend
Rome under a quandary again really jogo
for yoga zumba in the past we are not
allowed to speak anything about the
nucleation to 150,000 North Korean crowd
and they welcomed with the roaring of
house
do you think that denuclearization is
actually attainable it is unshakable
goal of South Korea United States Japan
and international community
I agree but there's also the argument
that you here in North Korea of look
what happened to Muammar Qaddafi gave up
his weapons of mass destruction he was
ousted so that there's a bit of fear
obviously you know it isn't natural for
North Korea to have a such a kind of
fear yeah there's a lot in in the press
anyways in in America of we make an
agreement to denuclearize and then what
happens is new things are being built or
new testing is going on and you know
we're being duped or it's it's happening
in secret it may not be necessarily a
cheating on the part of North Korea
North Korea may take a measure for hedgy
if anything goes wrong with the nos
state then they should have something to
rely on right but why these things
taking place it is taking place because
of lack of trust so the demilitarization
of the dmz is the first step towards
having a de facto unification where you
have an economic cooperation or military
cooperation absolutely once we can build
the kind of military confidence between
those themselves then we can move into
the end of WA declaration what's the
worst-case scenario if things turn
around the worst case scenario would be
the return to July and August of 2017
you know pre-emptive attacks and all
these kinds of things but there is one
qualitative difference there is a
communication channels among leaders in
their opening there is a some sort of
trust built among present Trump
chairman Kim jong-un and president
winter in that kind of a so-called
the new horizon of summit diplomacy will
prevent them the kind of worst case
scenario under Korean painful
is going to be a high-stakes poker game
played on the Korean Peninsula in 2019
absolutely
[Music]
you